hey this is presto Walker reminding you
to mind your decisions you may remember
me from videos about other viral math
problems right now the Internet is going
crazy over another problem so it's time
for the order of operations to save the
day what is 8/2
parentheses two plus two equal two will
calculate this using the order of
operations commonly remembered by PEMDAS
or badness we'll start with the
parentheses two plus two is equal to
four we then have a division and a
multiplication when you have operators
of the same precedence you work from
left to right so we take 8 divided by 2
first this evaluates to be 4 and then we
complete the multiplication of 4 by 4
and we get 16 this is without a doubt
the correct answer according to the
modern interpretation of the order of
operations but let's do a little thought
experiment let's travel back in time a
hundred years I actually found an
academic paper discussing this very
ambiguity in 1917 how would they solve
this problem they also would start with
the parentheses and 2 plus 2 would be
equal to 4 but then they would interpret
this expression a little bit differently
at that time mathematical typesetting
was limited so if you had something like
X divided by 2 y you would understand
it's x over the quantity 2y so for this
expression we would take 8 divided by 2
multiplied by 4 that's because it would
be hard to write this expression in the
limited typesetting of the time so they
would complete this as 2 multiplied by 4
this will be equal to 8 and then we have
8 over 8 which is equal to 1 this is not
the correct answer today so let me
address some of the issues about this
problem some people will say they
learned it a different
please let us know a textbook or printed
reference because we always want to
learn how math was taught over the years
what about the distributive property it
really doesn't have anything to do with
the correct answer 8 divided by 2
parenthesis 2 plus 2 is definitely equal
to 8 divided by 2 multiplied by 4 the
question is whether to do 8 divided by 2
first or 2 multiplied by 4
what about implied multiplication many
calculators will treat it like regular
multiplication as I'll show later in the
video
is the question even well defined it
says well defined as asking what is the
sum of angles in a triangle almost
everyone is going to answer 180 degrees
but that's only according to the
assumptions of plain geometry or II
clingy AMA tree similarly 8/2
parentheses 2 plus 2 is equal to 16
according to the modern interpretation
of the order of operations just as there
are non-euclidean geometries there can
be non modern ways or other ways of
interpreting this but the modern
interpretation is 16 to elaborate on
this point some people would say the
expression is ambiguously written so
there is no correct answer it is
analogous to a poorly written sentence
consider I saw the man with binoculars
did you use binoculars to see the man or
did you see a man who had binoculars in
his possession there's a point to be
made here just as we should write
precise sentences we should write
precise mathematical expressions but in
practice we have to resolve ambiguity
just as courts interpret and make
rulings on ambiguous laws calculators
parse and evaluate seemingly ambiguous
expressions so how would they parse this
expression what happens when you
actually put this into a calculator the
calculator will use its own program
order of operations and one way to
visualize this is a binary expression
tree so let's take this expression and
we need to parse it into just binary
expressions where we take two things at
a time
calculators will do this one subtree
will be 8 divided by 2 another sub tree
will be 2 plus 2 and then finally we
multiplied these two results and we get
the answer of 16 but there is another
way you could interpret this expression
if you put a parentheses right here this
binary expression tree will look very
different at the very bottom we have 2
plus 2 we then take 2 multiplied by this
result and then we take 8 divided by
this result this would give the answer
of 1 but that's not how most calculators
will do it just to give you an example
let's input this expression into Google
how does it parse this expression well
it gives the answer of 16 and if you
look very closely it parses it exactly
like the binary expression tree on the
left this is how most calculators and
programming languages will interpret
this expression I love that the internet
is so passionate about these problems it
will spur interest in mathematics and
definitely lead to mathematical
discoveries thanks for watching and for
making mind your decisions one of the
best channels on YouTube thanks for
watching and thanks for your support
[Music]